---
title: 'How to make educational data mining accessible to everyone?'
date: 2024-10-03
permalink: /posts/2024/10/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Learning Analytics Dashboards
  - Instructional Design
  - Visual Learning Analytics
---

Education plays a critical role in the lives of billions of people around the world. Therefore, optimizing educational processes and improving the learning experience is of paramount importance to all stakeholders, including learners, teachers, administrators, and researchers. Advances in AI and data analytics are creating new opportunities in education, collectively referred to as educational data mining (EDM). EDM involves applying data mining, machine learning, and statistical techniques to learner-generated data to improve learning outcomes. Another term related to EDM is learning analytics (LA), which is defined as the collection and analysis of data about learners and learning environments to optimize learning processes.

The insights generated by EDM and LA should be actionable, i.e. they should be effectively delivered to the relevant parties, e.g. students or teachers. Since most educational stakeholders are not analytics experts, effective interpretation of these insights depends heavily on how they are presented. This blogpost explores how Visual Learning Analytics (VLA) can meet this need by visualizing the insights provided by LA and EDM techniques, with multiple visualizations combined in a Learning Analytics Dashboard (LAD).

Check out the blogpost at [DataMiningApps](https://www.dataminingapps.com/2024/10/how-to-make-educational-data-mining-accessible-to-everyone/)